I want to start by creating a new project again and for this, I'll again use create react native app.
Now one important note at this point, we will eventually eject from this set up to get more power over
the configuration and to also be able to build this for deployment which we ultimately of course want
to do because there are some limitations
if we stay in the create react native app world. It's great for setting up a project though especially
since we can easily eject later,
so let's install it
and if you haven't done this in the first course module already, here's the command you need to execute.
You will need npm for that and you need it later too
so for that, you should install nodejs from
nodejs.org
and once you got that installed and once you install the create react native app, you can simply open
your normal terminal or command line on Mac or Windows depending on where you are and there navigate
into the folder where you want to create this new project
and in there you simply run create-react-native-app with dashes between these words and then the
name of the project and of the folder you want to create, I'll name it rn-course for react native
course
of course. This will now create this folder and install all the dependencies,
if you see an error here, that npm version 5 isn't supported, simply downgrade to npm version 4, instructions
about as can be found attached to this video,
you probably don't face this error anymore at the point of time you're doing this though,
but if you do, then follow the instructions which are attached to this video.
Now with that, I'll wait for this to finish and then we'll open this in an IDE and start working on this
project,
so the set up finished here and we could run npm start to start this development server and then open
the app through the expo app
but before we do that, let me open this application we created, this project we created with Visual
Studio Code which is the IDE
I will use here. So I open the project with visual studio code,
it's a fast and free IDE
but of course you could also use webstorm or you could use atom or sublime,
you don't really use Xcode or Android Studio though because after all it's still a javascript project,
we build native apps but we don't write native app code directly here,
we don't write Swift or Android code so therefore, a web editor, a web IDE is a great choice.
Now in this new project, we only got a couple of files as you already learned in the first course module,
most of them are configuration files like package.json which defines our dependencies
and we got this app.js file which actually hosts or holds our well root component in the end,
the root component which makes up our application.
Now we can't really see how this component gets loaded due to the set up we're using here with create react
native app,
one of the reasons why I want to eject, I want to show you how this gets loaded.
Additionally whatever we build here in the end will always be wrapped by the expo app or this expo
service which stands behind the app
if we build it for native devices. This is why I will soon eject from this configuration so that
we have a pure react native project we can work on
but for now, let's stay in this world and let's dive into this app.js
file. We already changed it in the first course module but it's super super important for you to understand
what's going on here which is why I'll spend some time on it.
So let's dive into this file and into components we can use and we can't use in the next lecture.